[Documentation] MLIR Plugins (#1373)
PennyLaneAI/catalyst: doc/dev/plugins.rst

Author: The standalone dialect is an out of tree dialect. I had some issues using `find_package` to obtain Catalyst's configuration. @mlxd and I discussed this briefly and he has some ideas about changing Catalyst CMake packages to make it easier to do this. We agreed that for the time being, just adding the plugin into Catalyst is a sufficient good enough solution. But I agree that something like what we use with MHLO should be used here.

Reviewer: Got it 👍

    -  using OpRewritePattern<func::FuncOp>::OpRewritePattern;
    -  LogicalResult matchAndRewrite(func::FuncOp op,
    +  using OpRewritePattern<catalyst::quantum::AllocOp>::OpRewritePattern;
    +  LogicalResult matchAndRewrite(catalyst::quantum::AllocOp op,
                                     PatternRewriter &rewriter) const final {
    -    if (op.getSymName() == "bar") {
    -      rewriter.modifyOpInPlace(op, [&op]() { op.setSymName("foo"); });
    +    // get the number of qubits allocated
    +    if (op.getNqubitsAttr().value_or(0) == 1) {
    +      Type i64 = rewriter.getI64Type();
    +      auto fortytwo = rewriter.getIntegerAttr(i64, 42);
    +
    +      // modify the allocation to change the number of qubits to 42.
    +      rewriter.modifyOpInPlace(op, [&]() { op.setNqubitsAttrAttr(fortytwo); });
           return success();
         }
    +    // failure indicates that nothing was modified.
         return failure();
       }
     };

And then we can run ``make all`` again.
The shared object of the standalone plugin should be available in ``mlir/build/lib/StandalonePlugin.so``.
This shared object can be used with ``catalyst-cli`` and ``quantum-opt``.

> You can change the name of the pass, change the name of the shared object and make any changes you want.
> This was just an easy example to get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From here, you can change the name of the pass, change the name of the shared object, and implement more complex transformations.
```

      }
    }

Notice that the name of the function ``bar`` has been changed to ``foo``.

Pass Plugins vs Dialect Plugins
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You may now be asking, "how come we used the option ``--load-pass-plugin`` but we didn't use the option ``--load-dialect-plugin``?"
The ``--load-pass-plugin`` option is used to load passes, while the ``--load-dialect-plugin`` is used to load dialects.
As mentioned earlier, the ``StandalonePlugin.so`` file also contains a dialect.
It is a simple dialect intended only for testing purposes, and it only contains a single operation. It is the ``standalone.foo`` operation.
(Please do not confuse this operation with symbols named ``foo``).

We can write a program that contains operations in the standalone dialect:

.. code-block:: mlir

    module @module {
      func.func private @bar() -> (i32) {
        %0 = arith.constant 0 : i32
        %1 = standalone.foo %0 : i32
        return %1 : i32
      }
    }

But if we try to run it, using the same command as shown earlier 

.. code-block::

      quantum-opt --load-pass-plugin=/path/to/StandalonePlugin.so --pass-pipeline='builtin.module(standalone-switch-bar-to-foo) example.mlir'

> the compilation will fail with a message similar to:

Author: I think it is fine as it is.
